## Fragment Analysis

### Summary
This is the last step to prepare samples for genotyping via fragment analysis. Samples should be immediately processed after thermal cycler program or placed in a -20°C freezer until they can be submitted.

### Equipment and Supplies
  - Plate centrifuge
  - Pipettes
  - Pipette tips
  - 1.5 mL Eppendorf tubes
  - 96-well plate
  - Plate lid
  - Thermal cycler

### Reagents & Standards
  - PCR products from [PCR for Genotyping](PCR_for_Genotyping.md)
  - HiDi
  - Size standard
  - Molecular-grade water

### Sample preparation and storage
PCR products should be kept in a 4°C fridge (short term) or -20°C freezer (long term) before use. Take out PCR products and allow them to thaw, spin down, them place on ice. Vortex HiDi well. Keep size standard in closed light-blocking bag until use, pipette up and down to mix. After final plate preparation, samples should be immediately processed in the 3730 or placed in a -20°C freezer until they can be submitted.

### Procedure
1. Based on gel results (brightness) of amplified products, dilute PCR products between 25-50 µl.
2. Make the following master mix (only HiDi and size standard) in a 1.5 mL Eppendorf tube:

|Reagents	|Volume per sample|Total volume|
|:--------|:-----|:----|
|HiDi|12.25 µL|1202 µL|
|Size standard|0.3 µL|29.1 µL|
|Diluted PCR products|1.35 µL| |
|**Total volume per well**| |13.85 µL|

3. Vortex the master mix very well (~30 seconds). Distribute 25 µL to every other column of a 96-well plate. Using a multichannel pipette, transfer 12.5 µL of master mix into the empty columns adjacent to those containing 25 µL of master mix. Each well should now contain 12.5 µL of master mix.
4. Using a multichannel pipette, add 1.35 µL of diluted PCR products to each well of the plate containing master mix. Apply the DNA products directly to the wall of each well.
5. Cover and spin the plate in a centrifuge until all liquid is collected at the bottom of each well (~10 seconds).
6. Place the plate in a thermal cycler and run for ~5 minutes using the 95/5 program. Allow the plate to cool to 4°C before removing and processing your sample in the 3730.

## Clean Up

## Data analysis and calculations
Data generated by the 3730 can be processed using Geneious.

## Notes
Unused diluted PCR products can be re-frozen at -20°C and used again in the event of a sequencing failure.
